- To start working with Springs web client,
we'll need to update one of the dependencies
within our Palm.XML file.
So here on line 22,
I'm going to switch over to the spring boot starter
web flux artifact.
And this will cause spring to include its support
for reactive web applications.
Now, to work with the web client,
we'll navigate to the Twitter search tests class.
And here we have some unit tests that we can work with.
I do want to point out a few things before we get started.
You'll notice that I've used spring to inject
my Twitter bearer token
from an environment variable named
TWITTER_BEARER_TOKEN.
You need to establish this same environment variable
on your workstation,
and then add your Twitter bearer token
as the value for that variable.
This is exactly what we did with Azure cognitive services.
You'll also notice that I've set up a constant
for the Twitter API domain.
And the path to the tweets search recent endpoint.
So, what we're going to do is rewrite this unit test.
You'll notice it uses the rest template.
And we're going to within the body of the skeleton
rewrite the call to use the web client.
The first thing we'll need to do is create an instance
of a web client.
And to help us with that,
there is the static create method on the web client class.
It just asks that we provide the domain of the API
we're calling.
From there we're going to take a look at an object
known as a Mono.
So this is a type within project reactor.
And project reactor is a special type of async
known as reactive.
That means it's fully non-blocking.
The Monotype within that project
represents a container that is going to publish
or emit a single item in the future.
And when that item's emitted, we can work with it.
So we need to specify a generic type parameter
that indicates what that container's going to hold.
In our case, it's going to be a response entity
that holds a string containing the response from the API.
So we've declared our mono.
Now let's use our client to send a get request.
And we'll need to complete the URI that we would like
to send the get requests to.
So we're going to use the path
to the end point to search for tweets.
And you'll recall that we needed to provide
a query parameter on that URI.
So I'm going to go ahead
and create a query parameter named query.
And then we can use a template to provide that value
for that parameter.
So you'll notice I put the template in curly braces.
And then the second argument to this method
is just whatever we'd like to search for.
I'm going to search for LinkedIn Learning.
And then from here,
we can go ahead and add the security to the call.
So when using OAuth,
you need to specify in authorization header.
And then you include the word bearer
in the value for that header.
And then after bearer, you provide your actual bearer token.
So it's kind of like bearer space, space is important.
Then the value for your token.
Okay.
The next thing we'll do is specify.
We'd like to retrieve the response.
That means we're now handling the response a little bit.
And we'll specify that we want this response
to be an entity that contains a response body
of type string.
Okay.
So we have our mono setup.
And then what we can do with that mono
is pull out the response entity.
And I'm actually going to do this in a blocking
fashion first so you can see that.
If you need to use the web client and a mono
to block,
meaning you have to wait for the response
from the API before proceeding.
You can use the block methods.
So the code will stop execution
and wait for the API response here.
And then what we can do
is once we get the response back from the API,
we can print the body out to the console
and then I'll put an assertion here to make sure
that we get a 200 and it was successful.
Okay.
So, this is a blocking call with spring's web client.
Let's go ahead.
We'll kick it off in the unit test.
There we can see that our unit tests passed.
Let's do one more thing now.
We're going to go ahead and switch this call
over to an asynchronous call.
So, we're no longer going to block.
And instead we're going to subscribe a consumer
to this mono.
So, when the mono gets the response back
and it emits that event,
we can listen to it.
So I'm going to provide a lambda function
that is going to print the response to the console
just like we did before.
We can even put our assertion there.
And then I'm going to do two other things.
I'll just print some output here.
I'll say this should print first
because it's async.
And then I'm also going to sleep our thread
so that the unit test doesn't finish execution.
You will not need to do this part
in a real production scenario.
Okay.
So, we have the call switched over to async.
We're no longer going to block on line 58.
And, we're going to handle that response
once it's emitted from the mono.
Let's run the test.
Okay.
We can see our tests have finished.
If we take a look at our console output,
we do see that we got that first line.
And then we had the response come in through the mono
and we log that to the console.
And there, you can see the actual tweet that we retrieved.
All right.
So that's our first exposure
to spring's web client programmatically.
And we were able to use it to make an API call.
We saw how to make a synchronous call using block
and how to make an asynchronous call using subscribe.
In the upcoming lessons,
we're going to take a look at another form of interaction
using the streaming API.